the United United Nations is mourning
the more than 100 Aid workers who've
been killed in Gaza since the start of
the war the UN flag was lowered to half
mast outside its headquarters in New
York and its other offices the UN says
it's the highest number of Staff killed
in such a short time since the
organization was founded after World War
II for more on that I'm now joined by
Tamar Ali she's the director of external
relations and Communications at the UN
Aid Agency for Palestine refugees anra
she joins us from Aman in Jordan
tomorrow un staff continue to work in
Gaza how are their current working
conditions extremely difficult working
conditions in Gaza for my
13,000 colleagues most of them are
Palestinians from Gaza themselves so
they're part of the people who have been
displaced a lot of my colleagues are in
shelters now but in the shelters they
are still Distributing bread
distributing some water and the medical
and health staff are still Distributing
consultations including to pregnant
women but the general conditions are
extremely dire in the shelters for
people who are displaced and for my
colleagues now we've been hearing about
humanitarian pauses that would allow
people to flee into Southern G
how helpful have these pauses
been they have probably been somewhat
helpful for those who no longer want to
remain in the north of Gaza which is
under very very heavy strikes but in
reality poses are never good enough what
is good enough is a ceasefire a
humanitarian ceasefire to allow to allow
civilians to move around and to allow
them to go somewhere and to allow us the
aid workers to go and assist people
where they are what we've been hearing
about in the last four or five days are
very very short uh openings to allow
some of the last people in the north of
Gaza to be displaced in the South so my
colleagues at unra the UN Agency for
Palestine refugees have seen tens of
thousands of people coming from the
north to the South as add in to the
immense overcrowding that is now in the
south of the Gaza Strip especially in
our
shelters so if you're talking about a
ceasefire how long would that ceasefire
need to
be a ceasefire is a ceasefire it has to
be long enough to allow people to move
around and to allow real humanitarian
assistance to go all over the strip what
we have been um
what what we have been restricted with
is UN has only been able to provide Brad
water Medical Services in one part of
the Gaza Strip and that is in the South
this is not right for an aid agency and
for the civilians we need to be able to
go all over the Gaza Strip but for the
last couple of weeks the North and the
South have been completely cut with the
north completely besieged and so it has
not been possible for us to work like we
want
to now if nothing changes in the near
future for example a ceasefire that
looks unlikely to happen what could the
situation on the ground look
like disastrous it is already
catastrophic we have 1.6 million people
out of 2.2 which is the total so
70% of the Gaza population is now
displaced most of them almost
800,000 have taken shelter in schools
that my agency the UN Agency for
Palestine refugees un usually runs
imagine 6,000 people in a school that is
supposed to be for 2,000 students we
have so many of these schools and very
little Aid going in you know the famous
trucks that come in from Egypt through
the ra Crossing they are just a drop in
a sea of needs we get 40 50,000 trucks
per day this is hardly enough as
humanitarian assistant there's no we're
running out of food we're running out of
clean water and mostly we're running out
of fuel and if we completely run out of
fuel we can't even move our trucks to
distribute the humanitarian assistance
Tamara arify there director of external
relations and Communications at the
United Nations eight Agency for p
refugees thank you very
much